% Dogs vs. Elephants - Business Nostalgia
% Ravikiran K.S.
% January 1, 2006


In a recent discussion with manager of my previous company, we were
talking about the take of company in past and how it may have to deal
with things from here on. The company underwent an acquisition during
last year by a competitor. As opposed to the acquirer killing the
acquired firm, it was a kind of reverse acquisition - where people from
the acquired company took over the key positions of the acquirer firm.
That is, our CEO became CEO of acquirer company. And he placed his
trusted people from his previous company into the key positions of
acquirer firm.

Analyzing the reasons for such a reverse merger, we found the main
reason of acquisition to be the success of our company in getting
advantage of adverse market conditions and be profitable. The board at
acquirer firm wanted the CEO of our company to take over the execution
of their firm and take it to the same heights that he took his previous
company into.

There were two primary reasons for the success of my last company: 'fast
& flexible'.

  - They were flexible enough to grab opportunities and tasks that
    others ignored. Not sure how far they delivered on it. But yes,
    initial take was good.

  - Execution was carried out so fast to beat competition in the market.
    Every engineer was kind of over burdened for many months, if not
    years.

I find comparison of dogs to small businesses and elephants to big ones
to be a good analogy. Small business are lean, flexible, fast, and can
do all the circus required to get a customer win. Whilst big companies
are process oriented, stable, slow in time to market, and provide
standard set of services/features for most of their customers. Small
companies can take the advantage of their flexibility to address the
markets and requirements of the customer that big companies ignore. Big
companies however look for long term vision and larger TAMs. For
instance, IBM took the contract of maintenance of Russian railways lines
across the country. Small companies can't even think of bidding for such
a deal, mainly because of the initial investment requirements.

Big companies can't afford to be as agile and flexible as small ones
because of their sheer mass and investment requirements. That doesn't
stop them finding a way to enter the market OR from entering the market
sooner or later.

Just something to ponder over.

