% Solve impossible problems
% Ravikiran K.S.
% January 1, 2006

## Solve Impossible Problems

\<note tip\>Main problem in solving a problem is the problem itself.\</note\>
`Unless you correctly understand the problem, you are not solving the right one.`

Often problems appear intractable, difficult, and some times impossible
to solve. MacCready says: "If the problem you are trying to solve
involves creating a magnum opus, you are solving the wrong problem."
That is, if the problem that you are trying to solve requires a lot of
effort and time to create the problem itself in first place and/or to
attempt a first hand solution, then you are solving a wrong problem.

In 1959, Henry Kremer presented a challenge to build an human-powered
Airplane that doesn't require any external energy to run. He also
declared a prize of $50,000 for the first person who can fly his machine
for a mile and a grand prize of $100,000 for the first person who can
fly his machine across English channel. Nobody could solve it for 18
years, till MacCready came into picture.

MacCready realized that human-powered flight was a red herring that
can't be solved in reasonable time as it would require lot of effort (in
spawn on years) to build a flight and lot more time to repair if the
first trial of flight didn't succeed. Hence he redefined the problem to
`build a flight that can be completely rebuilt in hours, and repaired
in minutes`. His mantra was:

``` code
Find a faster way to fail, recover, and try again.
```

He finally won both the awards in a span of mere 3 years. Read it
further
[here](http://www.fastcodesign.com/1663488/wanna-solve-impossible-problems-find-ways-to-fail-quicker "http://www.fastcodesign.com/1663488/wanna-solve-impossible-problems-find-ways-to-fail-quicker"):

On similar notes, I remember a personal experience where we friends set
out to cycle 35Kms to a nearby place in Hassan. We left hostel early
morning around 4AM and reached place by around 8AM. We didn't feel very
exhausted. We had taken a break in middle for coffee and nothing else.
But while cycling back, it was a herculean job to ride the bicycle. We
had to get down and push the bicycle 4 or 5 times. We took 3 breaks.
Other than the obvious fact that throughout the day our energy could
have drained out, it caught me as to why we felt so exhausted while
returning back.

In the morning, it was all dark and had poor visibility. We could only
see stripes on road only as far as few feet. We followed stripes on the
road, few feet at a time. Since uphill and downhill weren't visible to
us, it didn't fear us. But while returning, it was day light and we
could easily see the magnum of effort in front of us. The feeling of
effort estimation itself would weigh us down and we get down the cycle
thinking that we can't climb that on cycle pedaling.

The important lesson that i got that day was:

  - not to get frightened by magnitude of work. taking small steps would
    finally lead you to destination.
    
      - Remember the chinese person who built a 10 mile lengthy road all
        by himself on a mountain with bare minimum tools at hand.

  - embrace uncertainty and try to follow small leads to triumph
    uncertainty and reach destination.

  - have faith in yourself that you can make it.

