% TDD vs. BDD
% Ravikiran K.S.
% January 1, 2006

## TDD

In TDD (Test Driven Development), We focus on testing the each line of code
written in each of the API's and Classes in the given file. This may bring 100%
code coverage as there are no codes written more than what is required to
satisfy test cases, and there are no more test cases than to test a
functionality. But, this kind of a testing poses a problem especially in long
run. A code undergoes internal refactoring, realignment several times in its
course of development. So, any test cases written in above mentioned fashion
would break whenever a code undergoes a refactoring. In worse, the test cases
will have to be refactored too to cope with current state of code.

## BDD

So, the rescue is BDD (Behavior Driven Development). Each external API exposed
has an expected outcome. Each API satisfies a bunch of specifications, outputs,
behaviors. Regardless of internal implementation of API's, what is more
important is that they should behave the expected way. This can be best handled
by documenting each expectation from each API, and drawing a clear
specification out of it. The testing is done only on the behavior of a
particular API, not its implementation specifics. Even if there are some global
data structures, or state values to be verified in testing, the wrapper
(mutator) code should be written which will fetch those values. No direct
access to any variable or value is permitted. Everything, every access, every
operation is performed through a well defined interface. 

One good thing that comes to my mind is generation of stub code which can test
each function defined in a given file. Each file is parsed, and for each API in
that file, a corresponding test-API is generated. All comments are generated by
default (by looking at arguments, and return types). Search for Cproto, if
there is no such framework, you will have to write your own. 
