% The Dip - Seth Godin (Category J)
% Ravikiran K.S.
% January 1, 2006

## Chapter 1

**Winslen Bradly** says - *“Quitters don't win, and Winners don't
quit”*.

A BAD advice. Winners quit the right stuff at the right time. Most
people quit, and they quit at wrong time. Societies are profited by
their quitting. Often businesses count on these quits.

Extra ordinary benefits acrew to the tiny minority of people who are
able to push just the tiny bit longer than most. Extra ordinary benefits
also acrew to the tiny majority with the guts to quit early and refocus
their efforts on something new. In both cases, its about being the best
in the world. Quit the wrong stuff, and stick to the right stuff. Have
the guts to do the one or the other.

You will have to quit countless other pursuits. **You can't do too many
things, especially if you want to be the best in the world**.

Winners win big because world celebrates winners. Most often, **being
number \#1 only counts**.

## Chapter 2

People don't have a lot of time, and they don't want to take a lot of
risk. Why screw around when you get only one chance.

  - When you visit a new city, you don't ask for an average restaurant;

  - When hiring, you don't ask your HR for an average candidate;

  - While looking for your treatment, you don't look for an average
    doctor;

With limited time or opportunity for experiment, we intentionally narrow
our choices to those at the top. Hence rewards of being first are
enormous.

People make choice of best, as in best for them, right now, based on
what they believe and what they know, and in the world, the world as
they know. **Best is subjective**, same as world. Everyone has own
perception of their own world and that of best.  
For example, the best hernia doctor for me is the one who is recommended
by my friends, one who has degree with specialization in hernia, one who
is located in my city for being reachable, and finally the one within my
budget.

## Chapter 3

Every market segment today has infinite choices. Given infinite choices,
many people pick the market leader. Best selling books still outsell
back-list titles, big insurance companies get clients just because they
are big.

If something is not worth putting your best, then why bother at all.
Stop improving something unless it is truely remarkable. One needs to be
exceptional in things that matter. Nobody cares if an accountant knows
golf better, or if a doctor can drive the car better.

## Chapter 4

*“Strategic quitting is secret of successful organization, and reactive
& serial quitting are pain of unsuccessful Orgs.”*

\<note tip\>Most people quit when it is painful, and stick when they are
not bothered to quit.\</note\>

There are two main curves in almost all the areas that you want to
accomplish that decide the outcome.

  - *Curve 1*: **The Dip** - Successful people don't just ride out the
    dip, they lean into the dip, they seek the dip, they push harder
    changing the rules as required. Dips don't take long when you riddle
    with them.

  - *Curve 2*: **The Dead-end** - This is a straight line. You work,
    work, and work. It doesn't get a lot better, it doesn't get a lot
    worse, it just is as is. When you find one such job, you need to get
    off it fast. That's because the dead-end is keeping you from trying
    out something else. **The opportunity cost of spending life on
    something that is not going to be better is just too high**.

That's it, two big curves. Stick with the dips that are likely to pan
out, and quit the dead-ends to focus your resources.

## Chapter 5

If something is worth doing, it has a Dip. Most of the people don't turn
out of dip. Dip creates scarcity, and scarcity creates value. If you
face the cliff/dead-end, you need to quit, not soon, but right now.

The heart of problem is inability of people not being able to quit the
boat when it is smooth sailing towards dead-end. People tend to live in
same place to avoid the short term hassle of changing the path. What is
the point of sticking it out if you are not going to get the benefits of
being the best in the world.

The reason that why people don't take hard decisions is because the
other side is difficult and unpredictable. The fact that the other side
is difficult and unpredictable works to your advantage. Because if it
were any other way, there would be no profit. For instance:

  - Without obnoxious customers, there would be no need of you. You will
    be easily replaceable.

  - If some work is so easy that anybody can do it, why would somebody
    pay you high to do it?

**The dip is your very best friend**. Whatever you might be doing: doing
work, playing golf, whatever, you have made significant investments, you
have invested time, efforts and money to get to this moment. You have
acquired the education, the reputation, all to confront this dip right
now. **The dip is the reason you are here**.

Hardworking and motivated people find diversification a natural outlet
for their energy and drive. Diversification feels like the right thing
to do: enter a new market, apply for a job in a new area, start a new
sport, who knows this might just be the one. And yet the real success
goes to the ones who obsess the *focus* that leads you through the dip
to the other side is rewarded by market place in search of the best in
the world.

## Chapter 6

A wood pecker can tap 20 times on 1000 trees and get nowhere, but stay
busy. Or he can tap 20000 times on one tree and get dinner. Before you
enter a new market, consider what would happen if you managed to get
through the dip and win in the market you are already in.

It is easy to be mediocre than it is to confront reality and quit.
*“Most of people are afraid to quit. Quitting requires you to
acknowledge that you are never going to be best in the world, at least
not at this”*.

Super Stars get what they want because of their unique skills. A super
star is best in the world at what he/she does. **If you want to be a
super star, then you need to find a field with the steep dip**. A
barrier between those who try and those who succeed. And you have got to
get through that dip to the other side. **If you choose this dip, it is
because you think, you can get through it**. The dip is your ally
because it makes the project worthwhile and keeps others from competing
with you.

That is not enough. Not only do you need to identify the dip that you
can conquer, but **you also need to quit all the dead-ends that you are
currently idling your way through**. You must quit the projects,
investments, and endeavors that don't offer you the same opportunity.

Being better than 98% of others used to be fine. But it is useless in
world of Google as the competition is just one click away. The only
position you can count on now is the “best in the world”.

Here are 7 ways you might fail to become the best in the world

1.  You run out of time and quit.

2.  You run out of money.

3.  You get scared.

4.  You are not serious about it.

5.  You loose interest or enthusiasm or settle for mediocre.

6.  You focus on short term instead long term and quit when short term
    gets too hard.

7.  You pick the wrong thing at which to be the best in the world, that
    doesn't match you/your team's talent to pursue it.

The important thing to remember about these 7 ways is that you can plan
for them. You can know before you start whether or not you have the
resources and will to get to the end. Most of the times, if you failed,
its either because you planned wrong, or you gave up before you reached
the goal.

One of the underpinnings of the 'dip' is 'pyramid'. A pyramid scheme is
a scam in which the people at the bottom support the guy at the top. For
ex, Netflix offer 6 movies per week for $10 per month. There will be
enthusiasts who watch one movie every day. Hence Netflix could do this
only by counting on members who loose interest and do not watch probably
even single movie in entire month. Similarly, health clubs operate on
those members who are not actively participating in health club
activities, but still paying the rentals. Football coaching centers
build up on large number of those who join initially, but can't sustain
till the end.

“**Its no wonder that we quit. The system wants us to.**”

“**Dip causes scarcity, and scarcity leads to value.**”

## Chapter 7

It is very easy to identify if it is a dead-end or dip. The hard part is
to do something about it.

All competitive exams exist for lengthening the dip and making the life
easier and competition free for those on the other side. **If you can
keep going when the system is expecting you to stop, you will achieve
extra ordinary results**. When people make it through the dip, they are
scarce indeed, and hence they create the value: the income, the
privileges, and the respect.

If you are going to quit, quit before you even start, reject the system,
**don't play the game if you realize you can't be the best in the
world**. Average is for loosers. Quitting at the right time is
difficult. Most of us don't have the guts to quit.

To be a super star, you must do something exceptional. Not just survive
the dip, but also use the opportunity to create something extra ordinary
that people can't help, but talk about it, recommend it, and yes, choose
it.

So, whenever next time you catch yourself being average, when you feel
like quitting, realize that you only have 2 good choices: Quit or Be
Exceptional. Average is for loosers. Average feels safe, but its not.
Its the last choice. The path of least resistance.

**The temptation to be average is just another kind of quitting. The
kind to be avoided.**

## Chapter 8

The opposite of quitting is not waiting around, rather it is new
strategy to break the problem apart. When the pain gets so bad that you
are ready to quit, you set yourself up as someone who with nothing to
loose. You can go for a broke, challenge authority, lean into the
problem, and may be you lean the problem through it.

Here is what you can note down and post it on your bulletin board:
\<note important\>“If you are not going to get to number \#1, you might
as well quit now\!”\</note\>.

It is okay to quit some times, in fact it is okay to quit often:

  - You should quit if you are on a dead-end path

  - You should quit if you are on a cliff

  - You should quit if you are in dip that you can't conquer

Strategic quitting is the conscious decision you make based on the
choices that are available to you. *Quitting smart way is though a way
to avoid failing: **failing in job, failing in life, failing in own's
terms**.*

All the mediocre work is not because there is lack of talent, rather
because there is a dead-end. If best you can do is to cope, you better
off quitting.

**Quitting as a short term strategy is a bad idea, but quitting for long
term is an excellent idea** - Meaning, never quit something without long
term potential because you can't deal the short term stress at the
moment.

The very reason that people hang onto something is pride. If the pride
is the only thing keeping you from quitting, then quit the pride.

## Chapter 9

Ask yourself 3 questions:

1.  **Am I panicking?** - Quitting when you panic is dangerous and often
    expensive. The best quitters are the ones who decide in advance.
    When you are on highest stress, it is the wrongest moment to quit,
    but quite often the chosen path by many.

2.  **Who am I trying to influence?** - If you are considering quit, it
    is because you have failed to influence someone in your current
    prospect. Influencing one person is like climbing a wall, at each
    new attempt, it gets even higher. Influencing a market on other hand
    is like climbing a hill. You can make progress on step at a time.

3.  **What sort of measurable progress am I making?** - If you are
    trying to succeed in a job, a relationship or a task, there are only
    3 possibilities: You are either moving forward, or falling behind,
    or standing still. To get to the goal, you have got to make the
    forward progress, no matter how small.

When you are trying to influence the entire market, the cost of not
quitting is too high.

When it comes to the job, a job is just a tactic to reach the end goal
you want. If your job is nearing dead-end, better is to quit as
otherwise it would move your target more far from you with time.

Same is true for an organizations. Organizations don't define your
success by the tactics you use. Instead your organization fails or
succeeds to reach its bigger goals. And **the moment that your current
tactics no longer are winning the dip, the moment that they have hit the
dead-end**, you are obligated to switch the tactics and at the same
time, you definitely keep aiming for the bigger goal.

Seduction of not quitting and the stories of sticking out almost always
comes from people moving through the market. On the other hand, when
have you heard of dead end job, a dead end relationship, or dead-end
sales prospect, that changed forever.

Write down “Under what circumstances you are going to quit? And follow
it through”

## Chapter 10

If you blow up 10% less than required amount of air into bicycle tire,
it will be flat and malfunctioning. If you blow 10% higher, there will
be risks of blowing up the tire.

If you enter into a market that is too big or too loud for the amount of
resources that you have available, your message is going to get lost.
Your marketing disappears, your message fails to spread. Launching a
product into too big of a market has little effect. You will never
create a pressure, and you will never reach a dip. Figure out how much
pressure you have available and then pick up the tire. Not too big, not
too small.

If its not going to put a dent in the world, quit. Right now\! Quit and
use that void to find the energy to assault the dip that matters. Go
ahead, make something happen, we are waiting.

Some questions:

  - Is this a dip, a cliff, or a dead-end?

  - If it is a dead-end, can I turn it into a dip? Is my persistence
    going to pay off in the long run?

  - Am I engaged with just one person or the organization?

  - When should I quit? I need to decide now.

  - If I quit this task, will it increase my ability to get through the
    dip?

  - If I am going to quit anyway, is there something dramatic I can do
    instead that might change the game?

  - What chance does this project have to be the best in the world?

  - Who decides what the best is?

  - Can we make the world smaller?

***We succeed when we do something remarkable. We fail when we quit too
soon.***

