% The 8 Core Excuses Standing Between You And Your Dreams
% Ravikiran K.S.
% January 1, 2006
% Category - I

## 1\. I Don’t Have Time

If you don’t start now, when will you?

It’s quite common to believe that if you had more time, you’d make more
things happen, but in reality, it doesn’t work quite like that, at least
not from my experience. You see, there’s something called Parkinson’s
Law that states: Work expands so as to fill the time available for its
completion.

What this basically means is that even if you have more time, you’ll
tend to fill that time with the same amount of work. But this shouldn’t
stop you from doing anything. You can always find time to do what you
want. It all depends on how badly you want something.

## 2\. What About My Family/Friends/Kids

When you embark on your path to greatness, there will always be people
that will stand in opposition. You are in effect, making them
uncomfortable by stepping out of the confines of society, which in turn
destroys some of their belief systems. Sometimes you have to stand alone
in what you do and what you believe in.

At those times, it’s your duty to lead by example and show that this can
be done. You won’t always succeed, and the journey will not always be
easy, but if you keep going and keep doing what you feel is right,
you’ll get to where you need to be.

As you start moving towards your passion, some of your friends will
naturally fall away. They just aren’t a good fit for you anymore, and
that’s okay.

## 3\. I Don’t Know How

Making your passion a reality seems difficult, especially when you start
bumping into all the technical obstacles for getting a website up,
getting traffic, making money and so on. The good news is that there are
plenty of tutorials, guides and mentors out there that are more than
happy to help you out with whatever problems you may have. In the end,
all excuses are just excuses. You can easily find the information you
need. You may not know how to do everything right now, but you can
learn.

## 4\. I Don’t Have Money

The important part is getting started and making things happen, even if
you have no idea what the heck you’re doing. The fastest way to building
a successful business is to follow in the footsteps of someone who has
already been doing what you wanted to be doing.

## 5\. I Don’t Know People

The bottom line is that it doesn’t matter who you know. If you’re
following your passion and making things happen, people will
automatically be more willing to chat with you.

We’re all human beings, and we all crave authentic connections. Some
successful people may be busy, but you don’t have to start with the
A-listers. Just start with the people you feel like you would want to
talk to if you didn’t have a business to look after.

Building relationships just because doesn’t really work out. Be
authentic and have fun. That’s how you would want people to approach
you, right?

## 6\. I’m Afraid

Being afraid is good. It means you’re heading in the right direction.
Imagine your life without fear. It’s going to be there when you start
out, and it’s going to be there when you’re successful. It’s a part of
life, and the key to overcoming it is to accept it and keep moving on.

## 7\. It Won’t Work

To be honest, it probably won’t, at first, but that’s why you’ll be
persistent and patient, right?

If you fall off the horse, just get up again. It’s the only way, and it
isn’t as painful as you think it is. We have a tendency to worry a bit
too much. I’ve realized, it’s that the fear of fear is more horrifying
than the actual fear.

## 8\. I’m Not Good Enough

We all have limiting beliefs and sometimes our confidence just isn’t
where we want it to be. The funny thing is that even when you’ve reached
a certain amount of success, you will still be worrying about something.

We’ve been taught that success changes things, but no real change
happens outside of you, it all happens inside. So it doesn’t matter how
successful you are. The proof can be seen in famous people all around
the world. They have the fame, the money and the success, but most of
them are still searching for happiness.

Here’s the gist of it though: you will feel like you’re not good enough,
but you are good enough. As long as you can remember that, you’ll be
just fine. Keep rocking\!

