% How to Make Anyone fall in Love with You
% Ravikiran K.S.
% January 1, 2006
% Category - K

A successful love affair, perhaps one leading to marriage, is
retrospectively declared to be true love; whereas if one is rebuffed, it
is classified . . . as infatuation.

## TECHNIQUE \#1: DRESS FOR "THE KILL"—EVERYWHERE

Men, this does not mean you have to don your three-piece suit to buy the
newspaper. Women, it does not mean you need to slap on three coats of
mascara to walk the dog. What it does mean is whenever you step out the
door, step out dressed to kill . . . your Quarry.

## TECHNIQUE \#2: STAY PSYCHOLOGICALLY "FIT TO KILL"

Big-game hunters lay bear traps even before they spot the bear.
Fishermen cast nets long before the swarm swims their way. If you set
your psychological trap the minute your feet hit the floor in the
morning, chances are the next big one won't get away. Subjects who were
gazing at their partner's eyes and whose partner was gazing back
reported significantly higher feelings of affection than subjects in any
other condition. . . . Subjects who engaged in mutual gaze increased
significantly their feelings of passionate love . . . and liking for
their partner.

## TECHNIQUE \#3: INTENSE GAZE

When conversing with your Quarry, exaggerate your eye contact. Search
for his or her optic nerve. Lock eyes with your Quarry to give the aura
of already being in love.

## TECHNIQUE \#4: BEDROOM EYES

While chatting with your Quarry, gaze at the most attractive part of his
or her face. Your pupils will automatically expand, giving you those
bedroom eyes. Also, think loving thoughts. Concentrate on how beautiful
your Quarry is, how comfortable you feel with her, how much fun it would
be to take a shower with him.

## TECHNIQUE \#5: STICKY EYES

Whenever you are talking with your Quarry, let your eyes stay glued to
his or hers a little longer—even during the silences. A gaze that stays
overtime awakens primal, slightly disturbing feelings. It induces the
same “fight or flight” chemicals that race through our veins when we
feel infatuation. When you must look away, do so reluctantly. Drag your
eyes away slowly, as though they had been stuck with warm taffy.

## TECHNIQUE \#6: A VISUAL VOYAGE

As you and your Quarry are chatting, let your eyes do some traveling—but
only on safe territory at first. Take a visual voyage all over his or
her face, concentrating mostly on the eyes. If he or she seems to be
enjoying your expedition, take small side trips to the neck, shoulders,
and torso. Women, you have a more liberal passport to travel in this
territory. Men, be more wary. You're cruising into dangerous seas and
can sink the ship if your eyes travel too far south and vacation there
too long

## TECHNIQUE \#7 (FOR HUNTERS): MOVE FAST

“Move fast” doesn't mean making a beeline for your Quarry and jumping
her bones. It simply means immediately making your presence known by
signaling your interest. Here's the best proved method. Make eye
contact. Maintain steady eye contact with her and hold it just a tad too
long. Smile at her. Make sure your smile is friendly and respectful, not
a leering grin or a salacious smirk. Give her a nod. If she returns your
gaze within the decisive 45 seconds, nod slightly. The nod reads, “I
like you. May I make a reservation to talk with you?” Move within her
range. The final step is to move close enough to her to talk.

## TECHNIQUE \#9: SOFTEN YOUR QUARRY'S HEART

  - S is for smile. As you are listening to your Quarry, let a soft
    smile of acceptance frame your lips.

  - O is for open body. Face your Quarry fully, nose to nose, belly to
    belly. Keep your arms open in a relaxed, inviting position.

  - F is for forward lean. Lean toward your Quarry or stand or sit just
    a tad too close to show you are physically attracted.

  - T is for touch. Gently, even “accidentally,” touch your Quarry's arm
    or brush a piece of lint from his or her clothing.

  - E is for eye contact. Remember to use all four of the eye allure
    techniques we discussed.

  - N is for nod. Nod your head gently in response to whatever your
    Quarry is saying.

## TECHNIQUE \#10: EYEBALL CONVERSING

Don't just babble on, oblivious to your Quarry's reactions. Like a top
sales pro, watch your prospect carefully and gauge your pitch
accordingly. That way, your Quarry is more apt to buy your act.

## TECHNIQUE \#11: CHERRY PICKING

You'll never be stuck for good discussions with your Quarry if you pick
up on the conversational cherry. Listen for any slightly unusual word.
That's your cherry seed. Plant it, and watch it flower into a memorable
first conversation for your Quarry.

## TECHNIQUE \#12: THE PREMATURE WE

Create the sensation of intimacy with your Quarry even if you've just
met minutes before. Scramble the signals in his or her psyche by
skipping conversational levels one and two, and cutting right to levels
three and four.

## TECHNIQUE \#13: EARLY-BIRD DISCLOSURE

If you sense your conversation with a new Quarry is going smoothly, make
a minor revelation about yourself. It creates intimacy. Choose some tiny
foible and reveal it like a confession, but make sure it's really minor.

## TECHNIQUE \#14: NUTSHELL RESUME

Whatever you do in life, wherever you go, don't blow what could be the
biggest audition of your life—someone asking, “And what do you do?”
Prepare an answer that fits your Quarry's Lovemap, is upbeat and
confident, and casts some tasty bait to keep the conversation
going.

## TECHNIQUE \#15 (MORE IMPORTANT FOR HUNTERS): LET YOUR QUARRY PASS THE AUDITION FIRST

Hunters, don't ask a woman out too soon, lest she think you're only
interested in her looks. A woman values your interest all the more if
she feels you appreciate her other qualities. Huntresses, you can move a
bit faster. Men are less accustomed to being treated as sex objects. In
fact, some might enjoy it\!

## TECHNIQUE \#16: I'M HARD TO GET (BUT, FOR YOU, BABY . . .)

Considering playing hard to get? Don't . . . with him. When he asks you
for a date, respond immediately and energetically, “Oh, I'd love to\!”
But then, later, subtly drop hints that you're hard to get for other
men. Be very subtle.

## TECHNIQUE \#17: GIVE FIRST-DATE BUTTERFLIES

When planning your first date, find out what pulls your Quarry's
strings, then plan an arousing, emotional experience. You don't have to
risk life and limb together, but a little early shared anxiety is a
proved aphrodisiac. Then, of course, it's nice to have dinner afterward
so you can discuss the traumatic experience.

## TECHNIQUE \#18 (MORE IMPORTANT FOR HUNTRESSES): FIRST-DATE BONDING

To plant the seeds that you are similar, suggest his favorite interest
or activity as a first date. Remember, to a man bonding is not sitting
across a restaurant table looking deeply into your eyes while discussing
feelings—it's doing things together.

## TECHNIQUE \#19 (FOR HUNTRESSES): "I KNOW A GREAT LITTLE PLACE"

The way to a man's heart is through his stomach—and his wallet. In every
woman's little black book should be the name of a fabulous, charming,
and inexpensive restaurant.

## TECHNIQUE \#20 (FOR HUNTERS): SPRING FOR A NICE RESTAURANT

If you're dining out on your first date, take her to a restaurant with
an atmosphere like you want to project: Elegant? Upbeat? Cool? Arty?
Atmosphere is important because she'll transfer her feelings about the
room to you.

## TECHNIQUE \#21 (FOR HUNTERS): P'S AND Q's

Hunters, pick up a copy of Amy Vanderbilt's or Miss Manners' guides.
Read it with the same intensity as you'd read How to Satisfy a Woman
Every Time and Make Her Beg for More, because when you follow the advice
therein, you'll be satisfying two parts of her anatomy—her heart and her
brain.

## TECHNIQUE \#22: NEVER SAY BUTTERFINGERS

Clever Huntresses overlook their Quarry's minor slips, spills, fumbles,
blunders, and faux pas. They obviously ignore raspberries and all other
signs of human frailty in their Quarry. Successful Huntresses (and
Hunters) never say butterfingers.

## TECHNIQUE \#23 (FOR HUNTERS): DRESS AFFLUENTLY

In spite of millions of years of sexual evolution, men and women still
approach romance differently. Even when seeking a casual liaison (i.e.,
a one-night stand), do not go out dressed like an unmade bed. Dress as
though you were auditioning to be her husband.

## TECHNIQUE \#24 (FOR HUNTRESSES): DRESS ALLURINGLY

Women, the next time you say, “I haven't got a thing to wear,” don't
worry about it. Any outfit will do as long as it's flattering. He's
going to mentally undress you anyway. A smile, good makeup, and
receptive body language is far and away your most enticing ensemble.

## TECHNIQUE \#25: ECHOING

Early in a budding relationship, you don't know enough about your Quarry
to invoke his values, her attitudes, or his interests. But you can hint
that you feel just like your Quarry does. Simply listen carefully to the
seemingly arbitrary choice of words and echo them back.

## TECHNIQUE \#26: COPY THEIR CLASS ACT

Hunters and Huntresses pursuing pedigreed prey should move differently
from those stalking a wild cat. The polo-and-port set has a very
different body language from the bowling-and-beer crowd. Watch how he
walks, how she sits down, how he gestures, how she holds her cup. Then
move like the class of your
Quarry.

## TECHNIQUE \#27 (MORE IMPORTANT FOR HUNTRESSES): RIDE YOUR QUARRY'S WAVES

Ride your Quarry's waves. Or his motorcycle, or his horses, or his golf
cart. Tell him you love donning your ski pants, your wet suit, your
tracksuit, your karate gis, or your hiking shorts. Or maybe just your
couch-potato teddy so you can enjoy a good football game on TV with him.
Women want to know that, after making love, there will be something to
talk about with their man. Men want to know that, after making love,
there will be something to do with their woman.

## TECHNIQUE \#28 (MORE IMPORTANT FOR HUNTERS): CO-REACT

To capture your Quarry's heart, share his or her convictions and show
you feel deeply. Watch your Quarry's reactions to outside stimuli, then
show the same emotions—shock, disgust, humor, compassion. Say you're in
a nightspot and a foolish drunk falls off a bar stool. Watch how your
Quarry reacts. Did he laugh? Did she show shock? Did he coolly ignore
it? Did she rush over to help the drunk up off the floor? Do the same.

## TECHNIQUE \#29 (MORE APPROPRIATE FOR HUNTERS): WHAT IS LOVE?

Hunters, ask your Quarry, either directly or as a philosophical
question, how she defines an ideal relationship. Then love her not the
way you think you should love her but the way her ideal partner would
love
her.

## TECHNIQUE \#30 (MORE APPROPRIATE FOR HUNTRESSES): WHAT SHOULD I SAY LOVE IS?

Huntresses, you must find out what tacit assumptions your Quarry has
about relationships. To make your question nonthreatening, tell him one
of your young friends or relatives (perhaps a niece or nephew) has asked
you what an ideal love relationship should be. Since you don't know how
to answer, you are asking his advice: “What do you think I should say
the ideal relationship is, hmm?” Then listen. Listen hard.

## TECHNIQUE \#31: I GOT JUST WHAT YOU NEED

From time to time, casually ask what qualities your Quarry admired in
his or her previous lovers. At a later date, when your Quarry has
forgotten you had asked, start hinting at what a hotshot you are in
those areas.

## TECHNIQUE \#32: BODY PRAISE

When you meet your Quarry, give the subliminal sense that you are
irresistibly drawn to him or her through deferential body language.
Choose from the earlier selection of eye and body techniques to express
how he or she has captivated you.

## TECHNIQUE \#33: EMPLOY EMPATHIZERS

Sprinkle empathetic phrases throughout your conversation with your
Quarry. Dust your first discussion with phrases like “I see what you
mean,” “Yes, you were right,” “I can relate to that,` and the all-time
favorite, `I understand.”

## TECHNIQUE \#34: KEEP THE SPOTLIGHT ON YOUR QUARRY

Think of your conversation with your Quarry as a giant spotlight. Every
time it is shining on your Quarry, he or she is engrossed. If the
spotlight revolves around to you or is aimed at someone or something
else, your Quarry will find the conversation (and, therefore, you) less
interesting.

## TECHNIQUE \#35: TRACKING

Like an air traffic controller, track the tiniest details of your
Quarry's life. Refer to them in your conversation like a major news
story. When you invoke the last major or minor event in anyone's life,
it confirms what they've known all along. They're the leading character
in that riveting novel, My Life. They will love you for recognizing
their stardom.

## TECHNIQUE \#36: PRIVATE JOKE

To create premature intimacy, listen carefully while your new Quarry is
telling a story. Then pick out a phrase that he or she obviously
relishes. Caption this favorite passage and repeat it back to your
Quarry later in the conversation to make him or her feel very special.
You now share a private joke, just like longtime lovers.

## TECHNIQUE \#37: CONFER KUDOS

As the intimacy progresses, add approval notes to your empathizers.
Sprinkle your conversation with little phrases like “Good going,” “Not
bad,” and “Hey, that was smart.” Huntresses, don't be bashful. Men eat
it up. Hunters, force yourself to give kudos. It's a new skill for you.

## TECHNIQUE \#38: THE IMPLIED COMPLIMENT

Pave the path to your Quarry's heart by tucking implied compliments into
the secondary parts of your sentences. You can also hint at your exalted
opinion of him or her by referring to your Quarry as part of some
superior group.

## TECHNIQUE \#39: THE BULL'S-EYE COMPLIMENT

Before you fire your first overt compliment, ask yourself, “What is this
person most proud of?” Then take precise aim. Also consider timing. You
warm your Quarry's heart more by praising a new achievement over an old.

## TECHNIQUE \#40: THE KILLER COMPLIMENT

Search for a unique quality in your Quarry, one so deep that most people
wouldn't comment on it. Then look your Quarry straight in the eye, use
your Quarry's name, and knock his or her socks off with the killer
compliment.

## TECHNIQUE \#41: SHORT ON ASSETS? GO LONG ON PRAISE

Attractive and accomplished people are accustomed to praise, so
compliments often have less value on the open market. Seek original
praise for popular Quarry. However, if your Quarry is not used to being
praised, he or she is hungry for your words of appreciation, no matter
how trite. Feed your Quarry's ego the appropriate diet and watch his or
her love grow.

## TECHNIQUE \#42: THE KNEE-JERK COMPLIMENT

After your Quarry's accomplishment, compliment immediately. The first
syllables you utter must be the flattering answer to the unasked
question, “How'd I do?”

## TECHNIQUE \#43 (ESPECIALLY FOR HUNTRESSES): HAVE THE FIRST LAUGH

Huntresses, it is with embarrassment that I offer you this obvious
technique, but leaving it out would be a grave sin of omission. Be the
first to laugh at his jokes, and laugh the longest. Many a Huntress who
had the first laugh when her Quarry made a joke has had the last as she
waltzed off to the altar with him.

## TECHNIQUE \#44: CONFER PET-NAME STATUS

If it's appropriate, ask your Quarry what he or she was called as a kid.
If you sense that your Quarry likes that pet name, say, “Oh, I love it\!
Do you mind if I call you that?”

## TECHNIQUE \#45: BOOMERANGING

When your Quarry compliments you or asks you about anything you enjoy
talking about, boomerang the good feelings back. Thank him or her for
asking or noticing. Stamp out childish embarrassment and let your big
smile show your Quarry you appreciated the compliment.

## TECHNIQUE \#46: SPOCKING

Think about the subtle, maybe even silly, things you love about your
significant other. Then, at odd moments, tell him or her what those
things are. Your partner is not a mind reader. More than just saying “I
love you,” you need to tell why.

Women are attracted to men whose appearances elicit their nurturant
feelings; who appear to possess sexual maturity and dominance
characteristics; who seem sociable, approachable and of high social
status . . . Individuals who display an optimal combination of neotenous
(boyish) features of large eyes, the mature features of prominent
cheekbones and a large chin, the expressive feature of a big smile, and
high-status clothing were seen more attractive than other men.

## TECHNIQUE \#47 (FOR HUNTRESSES): MOVE LIKE A 10

Can you fool Mother Nature? No. But you can fool a man. Convince
yourself that you are the most beautiful creature that ever graced the
planet. Then move accordingly.

## TECHNIQUE \#48 (FOR HUNTERS): MOVE LIKE A HUNK

Men, make strong, smooth, bold movements. Walk strong. Look like you
know where you're going and why. Take the woman's arm when crossing the
street, help her in and out of cars, and make other manly gestures that
women find so seductive.

## TECHNIQUE \#49: MIRROR, MIRROR, ON THE WALL

To dramatically increase your chances of success with new Quarry, only
pursue prey within one or two points' difference on the attractiveness
scale. This technique also ups the odds on lifetime happiness with your
partner.

## TECHNIQUE \#50: LET YOUR RAGS SHOW RICHES

Gentlemen, go for one handmade suit. Make sure your tailor is expert in
the delightfully arcane details of flaps, vents, lapels, and stitching.
Ladies, you can dress off the rack, but make sure the rack has a
recognizable designer's name over it. When chasing costly Quarry, make
sure nothing adorns your body that costs less than $100, with the
possible exceptions of your socks and undies.

## TECHNIQUE \#51: LET YOUR TONGUE SHOW RICHES

To trap pedigreed prey, you needn't collect upper-class words and
memorize them, but do cut the euphemisms. (Don't forget to use the
Echoing technique. It will save you from making many faux pas.)

## TECHNIQUE \#52: THE SOUND OF CLASS

The secret to a well-heeled tongue is, quite simply, to pronounce all of
your syllables and finish every word that issues forth from your mouth.

## TECHNIQUE \#53: DON'T ASK "WHAT DO YOU DO?"

Develop an ear for appropriate topics of conversation. Pedigreed and
other prestigious prey have very sensitive toes. You don't want to go
around stomping on them. Above all, avoid the favorite party question,
“And, what do you do?” It tags you as so working class.

## TECHNIQUE \#54: YOUR PERSONAL THESAURUS

To convey a rich background, choose rich words from the thesaurus. Like
a beautiful necklace, try them on, then let them fall, like pearls, from
your lips while chatting with your prestigious prey.

## TECHNIQUE \#55: UP YOUR ANTE IN INTANGIBLES

To up your market value, never stop learning, never stop developing your
personality and social skills, and always strive to develop fine inner
qualities. They are as good as golden bullets to pierce your Quarry's
heart.

## TECHNIQUE \#56: LET HIM OR HER DO FAVORS FOR YOU

Let your Quarry do little favors for you and give you gifts. Thank him
or her, but don't appear too grateful. Act as though it is perfectly
logical for your Quarry to be putting himself or herself out for you. To
restore cognitive consistency, your Quarry will be convinced that he or
she must really love you.

## TECHNIQUE \#57 (FOR HUNTRESSES): BRUSH UP ON MAN-TALK

Take a conversational cruise across the gender gap. Huntresses, become
conversant in concepts, politics, objects, big toys, sports, and other
male subjects. Show him you're smart, but remember—not too smart.

## TECHNIQUE \#58 (FOR HUNTERS): BRUSH UP ON "WOMAN-TALK"

Hunters, make your conversation more psychologically oriented. Converse
with your Quarry in terms of people, feelings, philosophy, rationale,
and intuition. Be more supportive and less competitive in your insights.

## TECHNIQUE \#59 (FOR HUNTERS): "HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT THAT?"

Hunters, whatever she is discussing, simply ask, “How do you feel about
that?” Go ahead, force yourself. After she pulls her jaw back up to get
it operable, she will respond enthusiastically.

## TECHNIQUE \#61 (FOR HUNTRESSES): STAY LOST\!

Huntresses, if your Quarry gets lost, bite your tongue until it bleeds
if you must, but do not suggest he ask for directions. Never take it
upon yourself to ask a stranger yourself while he sits there feeling
like a larnebrain. Never.

## TECHNIQUE \#62 (FOR HUNTERS): JUST ASK\!

Hunters, if you get lost, do the lady a favor. Lock your ego in the
glove compartment along with the maps. Just roll down the window and ask
directions. It won't kill you.

## TECHNIQUE \#63 (FOR HUNTRESSES): JUST THE FACTS, MA'AM

Huntresses, when stalking and talking with male Quarry, keep your
explanations short. Shave down the details. If you want to extend the
dialogue and switch into a more personal mode, try a little veiled
compliment.

## TECHNIQUE \#64 (FOR HUNTERS): PAINT A PRETTY PICTURE

Hunters, instead of worrying about how you can score with a great line
when you meet a woman, simply flesh out whatever you are saying.
Elaborate, and share interesting details. If she likes your looks, she
will love hearing about how something looked, sounded, or seemed. Paint
a pretty picture for her to enjoy.

## TECHNIQUE \#65 (FOR HUNTERS): TELL ME ABOUT IT

Hunters, when your Quarry is upset, beg her to tell you about it. Then
listen—like a woman listens. It makes you a more loving man in your
Quarry's eyes.

## TECHNIQUE \#66 (FOR HUNTRESSES): WHEN HE'S MAD, STAY MUTE

Huntresses, if your male Quarry is upset about something that has
nothing to do with you, do not smoke him out of his foxhole. Do not make
him feel guilty for not telling you about it. Let him know you're there
if he wants to share, but give him the freedom to burrow in his foxhole
until he is ready to crawl out all by himself.

## TECHNIQUE \#67 (FOR HUNTRESSES): DON'T HINT-SAY IT STRAIGHT

Huntresses, realize that your Quarry will take your questions literally.
When you want something, say “I want” or “I'd like to.” When you really
mean I, avoid phrases like “Would you like to” or “Do you think we
should . .
.?”

## TECHNIQUE \#68 (FOR HUNTERS): PUT SOME SOFT CURVES IN YOUR CONVERSATION

Hunters, instead of telling her what the two of you are going to do, ask
her opinion first. Also, when your Quarry asks you a question, don't
take it literally. Read between the lines to see what she's hinting at.
When she asks, “Would you like to,” it probably means she would like
to.

## TECHNIQUE \#69 (FOR HUNTRESSES): ZIP YOUR LIP AND LET HIM BOTCH IT ALL BY HIMSELF

Huntresses, when your Quarry is doing something for you, even if he's
bungling it beyond belief, zip your lip. Unless it's a matter of life
and death, force an appreciative smile. Run outside where he can't hear
you if you have to scream, “Stuuuuuupid, do it this way\!”

## TECHNIQUE \#70 (FOR HUNTERS): UNZIP YOUR LIP AND LEND A HELPING HAND

Hunters, when you see a woman struggling, go to her and ask if she would
like your help. Unlike your male buddies, she will not assume you don't
trust her to do it herself. She will interpret your help as caring about
her and her problems.

## TECHNIQUE \#71 (FOR HUNTRESSES): ASK WOULD NOT COULD

Huntresses, this is subtle stuff indeed, but say would instead of could
when asking your Quarry for favors. When he hears could, the competitive
beast hears a challenge to his experitise, not a request for his
valuable services.

## TECHNIQUE \#72 (FOR HUNTERS): I'M SORRY

Hunters, when you mess up, simply have the courage to say “I'm sorry.”
When you see how your Quarry warms to you, you won't be sorry you said
it.

## TECHNIQUE \#73 (FOR HUNTERS): LEARN STEAMY SENSUALITY FROM LADY PORN

Hunters, there's a new breed of woman out there, and she's letting the
world know what's hot—and what's not—for her between the sheets. To
drive your Quarry wild in bed, trash your men's triple-X movies. You
won't learn anything from those but misinformation you already have. Pop
some films by female artistes in your VCR. Then take copious notes.

## TECHNIQUE \#74 (FOR HUNTERS): READ A HARLEQUIN ROMANCE

Yes, Hunters, I'm serious. You may chuckle, guffaw, gag, roll your eyes,
or double up on the floor choking with laughter, but twenty-five million
females can't be faking that they like this stuff. Try it. You may not
like it. However, you'll love her reaction when you try some of the
techniques that Raphael, Beau, Felipe, Rigg, Sky, Dunstan, Tuck, Kael,
Cagney, and other exotic Harlequin Hunters use to trap their Quarry.

## TECHNIQUE \#75 (FOR HUNTRESSES): LEARN "RAW SEX" FROM MEN'S FLICKS

Huntresses, you may laugh (you may also turn green and gag), but study
men's porno flicks to pickup some hints on raw sex. Men spend millions
of dollars annually to see hot women lusting after the male body in such
films. You don't have to go overboard and act like you'd have an orgasm
if your Quarry so much as kissed you, but, to make him fall in love with
you, a little lust wouldn't hurt.

