% Ten Rules to Live by To Achieve Success (Category K)
% Ravikiran K.S.
% January 1, 2006

**1. Feed Your Strengths\!** - Give yourself every opportunity to show
others your appreciation of a situation and how you could see it through
to a good outcome. Take charge where you can make it count.

**2. Face Your Weaknesses\! Understand you have limits too** - Your
careful world view is not the whole deal. How things look and feel may
not concern you, but they concern many others. Try and allow such things
to be and learn from them.

**3. Talk Time to Find Out How Others Really Think** - You need to drive
past your thoughts with others and let their appreciations of a
situation reach you at a deeper level. It will then be possible for you
to take account of their needs as real world objectives which if
included in your ideas will bring greater harmony and quality to life
and relationships.

**4. Take Time Out To Let The Whole Situation Speak To You** - Don’t
dismiss those abstract and seemingly hard to understand or bothersome
aesthetic and feeling judgments coming from others or from inside
yourself. Drop everything for a while, stop thinking and worrying and
just relax into those ideas and let them speak to you. Perhaps they can
be accommodated, perhaps something is hiding in there which offers a new
way.

**5. When You Get Upset, You Lose** - Your energy and rational
understandings are strong assets, but can be very harmful if they turn
against you and leave you with nothing but emotions you cannot deal
with. Remember that others cannot always be expected to fall into your
ways of seeing, and when your drive to make them do so fails you will
suffer feelings of resentment and even abandonment. You cannot deal with
the world like this. Moderate your ideas, allow others their spaces, and
you will grow.

**6. Respect your Need for Intellectual Compatibility** - Don’t expect
yourself to be a “touchy-feely” or “warm-fuzzy” person. Realize that
your most ardent bonds with others will start with the head, rather than
the heart. Be aware of other’s emotional needs, and express your genuine
love and respect for them in terms that are real to YOU. Be yourself.

**7. Be Accountable for Yourself** - Don’t blame the problems in your
life on other people. Look inwardly for solutions. No one has more
control over your life than you have.

**8. Be Humble** - Judge yourself at least as harshly as you judge
others.

**9. Take a Positive Approach to Differences in People** - Don’t
distress yourself and others by dwelling on what seem to be their
limitations. They need you to guide them and you need them to see things
through. Try and recognize who can perform the most ably within certain
fields outside your own competence. Let the feelings of others become a
strength rather than a hindrance to you.

**10. Don’t Get Obsessed\!** - Recognize the value that personal world
has to you, your friends, your family, your own inner sense of self
worth and life. Take pride in just being a good person and don’t allow
external situations to control you. Try to relax & let the moment belong
to the best things you can find in others and yourself. Nothing out
there is more important than your own happiness.

