% The Way to Happiness (Category J)
% Ravikiran K.S.
% January 1, 2006

While no ideas can guarantee happiest life for anyone, applying rules to
one's life can elevate his/her life to much better level. It is not only
our job to apply these rules ourselves, but also guide others to do
this.

## 1\. Take care of yourself

1.  **Get care when you are ill** - Illness can harm both self and
    society. So, take utmost care of yourself when you are ill.

2.  **Keep your body clean** - Dirtyness is the largest reason for
    illness. Keeping self clean freshens the surrounding and gives
    happiness.

3.  **Preserve your teeth** - Brushing after every meal or having
    chewing gum after every meal protects teath decay.

4.  **Eat properly** - Eat nourished food properly. This gives necessary
    stamina and energy to chase our dreams.

5.  **Get rest** - Tired people aren't alert, can make mistakes, have
    accidents. They are risk to themselves and others.

## 2\. Be Temperate

1.  Do not take harmful drugs - Drugs breaks person both physically and
    mentally. Encourage people to come out it.

2.  Do not take alcohol to excess - Drinking can take lives in more ways
    than one.

With above two rules, one becomes more physically fit to enjoy the life.

## 3\. Don't be promiscuous

A lot of pleasure can come from sex: nature intended it that way so the
race could go on. But misused or abused, it carries with heavy penalties
and punishments: nature seems to have intended in that way also.

1.  Be faithful to your sexual partner - Urge of the moment can become
    the sorrow of lifetime. Sex is a big step on the way to happiness
    and joy. There is nothing wrong with it if it is followed with
    faithfulness and decency.

## 4\. Love and help children

Today's children will become tomorrow's civilization. A child is little
bit like a blank slate, it reflects whatever you write on it. However,
as child grows, it learns to write on its own by observing the
surroundings. One has to make up his mind what he is trying to get the
child to become: this is modified by several things:

1.  What the child basically can become due to inherent make-up and
    potential?

2.  What the child really wants to become?

3.  What one wants the child to become?

4.  The resources available.

All this adds up to, the child will not survive well unless he or she
eventually becomes self reliant and very moral. Otherwise, the end
product is likely to be a liability to everyone including the child. It
will be no accident if the child goes wrong: it is sum total of
society's and parent's act that has caused this.

One way to help child is to become a friend of him. Try to find out what
his problem really is, and without crushing their own solutions, try to
solve them. Listen to what children tell you about their lives. Let them
help you. A child factually does not do well without love. Most children
have abundance of love to return.

## 5\. Honor and help your parents

There are differences between generations. Children can reconcile their
differences with their parents. Before any shouting begins, one can at
least try to talk it over quietly. It is often possible to attain
compromise where both sides now understand and agree.

In spite of all, one must remember that they are the only parents one
has. And as such, no matter what, one should honor them and help them.

## 6\. Set a good example

Others around you can't help but be influenced by your good deeds, no
matter what they say.

## 7\. Seek to live with the truth

One can solve problems of existence only when he has true data. False
data often misleads people. Think your own way through things, accept
what is true for you; discard the rest. There is nothing unhappier than
one who tries to live in a chaos of lies.

1.  Do not tell harmful lies - They can ruin lives. They create a kind
    of trap into which the teller and the target both fall.
    Interpersonal and social chaos can result. One should learn to
    detect them and reject them.

2.  Do not bear false witness

## 8\. Do not murder

The stupid, the evil and the insane seek to solve their real or imagined
problems with murder. And they have been known to do it for no reason at
all.

## 9\. Do not do anything illegal

Almost any worthwhile thing one is trying to accomplish often can be
done in perfectly legal ways. The state and government tends to be
rather unthinking machine. The rightness and wrongness of things do not
count in face of laws and codes of laws. Only the laws count. Adhere to
principle that all men are equal under law.

## 10\. Support a government designed and run for all the people

Government organized and conducted solely for self-interested
individuals and groups gives society a short life span. Opposition to
such governments usually just brings on more violence. There are several
governments in the world that are falling only because their people
express silent disagreement by not cooperating.

On other hand, when government is obviously working hard for all its
people, one should support it to the limit. It is, after all, the people
and their own opinion leaders who sweat and fight and bleed for their
country - a government cannot bleed, it cannot even smile: it is just an
idea men have. It is the individual person who is alive - you.

## 11\. Do not harm a person of good will

Factually, the society runs on men and women of good will. Such people
are easy to attack: their very decency prevents them from overprotecting
themselves. Yet the survival of most of the individuals in society
depends upon them.

Strong measures should be taken to defend them and protect them from
harm. Own's, family's and friend's survival depends on them.

## 12\. Safeguard and improve your environment

1.  Be of good appearance - An environment disfigured with unkept people
    can have subtle, depressing effect on one's morale. Encourage people
    around you to look good by complimenting them when they do or even
    gently helping them with their problem when they don't. It could
    improve their self regard and their morale as well.

2.  Take care of your own area - A little time spent getting organized
    can pay off in speeded work; it is not waste of time some believe.
    To protect your own possessions and places, get others to take care
    of theirs.

3.  Help take care of the planet - Although one cannot prevent others
    from doing harm to planet, even if one only had a opinion that it
    was just not a good thing to wreck the planet and mention the
    opinion, one would be doing something.

## 13\. Do not Steal

When one does not respect the ownership of things, his own possessions
and property are at risk. Stealing is really just an admission that one
is not capable enough to make it honestly.

## 14\. Be worthy of trust

Mutual trust is the firmest building block in human relationships.
Without it, whole structure comes down. Trustworthiness is highly valued
commodity. When one has it, one is considered valuable. When one has
lost it, one may be considered worthless.

1.  Keep your words once given - Those who break their word, often never
    get another chance. Once he fails to live upto a promise, he will
    have to provide guarantee, warrantee and all other proofs for his
    trustworthiness.

## 15\. Fulfill your obligations

Always fulfill your obligations and discourage a person from incurring
more obligations than it is possible for him to actually discharge or
repay.

## 16\. Be industrious

Morale is boosted to hights by accomplishment. Sorrow itself can be
eased simply by getting busy at something. Idle people are more
dangerous. Get them some work to keep them engaged.

## 17\. Be competent

In common pursuits and activities, man respects skills and ability. The
test of true comptence is end result. To the degree that man is
competent, he survives. To the degree that he is incompetent, he
perishes.

Encourage the attainment of competence in any worthwhile pursuit.
Compliment it and reward it, when you find it. Demand high performance
standards. The ingredients of competence include observation, study, and
practice.

1.  **Look** - See what you \_see\_; not what someone else tells you
    that you see. Look at life and things and others directly, not
    through set of prejudices, curtain of fear, or interpretation of
    others. Observe what you \_observe\_. Instead of arguing with
    someone, get them to look. What they find is usually obvious when
    they see it. Then they can go and handle things. But if they don't
    see it themselves, observe it for themselves, it may have little
    reality for them; all rules, orders, and punishments in the world
    will not resolve their problem. One can indicate what direction to
    look and suggest that they do look: the conclusions are up to them.
    True competence is based on one's own ability to observe.

2.  **Learn** - Separating false data from the true brings about
    understanding. The main process of learning consists of inspecting
    the available data, selecting the true from the false, important
    from unimportant, and arriving thereby at conclusions one makes and
    can apply. The test of any “truth” is whether it is true for you. If
    you can't see the results, reject it. If you like, carry it further,
    and conclude what “truth” is for you. The process of learning is not
    just piling data on top of more data. It is one of obtaining new
    understandings and better way to do things. If one cannot get those
    around him to study and learn, one's own work can become much harder
    and even overloaded and one's own potential of survival is at risk.

3.  **Practice** - Learning bears fruit when it is applied. Wisdom of
    course, can be pursued for its own sake: there is even a kind of
    beauty in it. But, truth told, one never really knows if his
    understanding works or not, until he sees results of trying to apply
    it. Without working each movement, unless doing it over again and
    again until one can get it done without thinking and get it done
    with speed and accuracy, one can set stage for accidents. The least
    practiced has most mistakes. Theory and data blossom only when
    applied and applied with practice. Get people to look, study and
    work it out and then do it. And when they have it right, get them to
    practice, practice, practice until they can do it like a pro.

## 18\. Respect religious beliefs of others

Tolerance is a good corner stone on which to build human relations. In
this sea of contention, one bright principle has emerged: he right to
believe as one chooses. Faith and belief do not necessarily surrender to
logic: they cann't even be declared illogical. They can be things quite
apart. One is at the liberty to hold onto his beliefs for acceptance.
One is at risk when he seeks to assault beliefs of
others.

## 19\. Try not to do things to others that you would not like them to do to you

This negative declaration of Golden rule gives a basis for one to
identify what is right and wrong.

## 20\. Try to treat others as you would want them to treat you

This positive declaration of Golden rule gives a basis for one to
identify what is good and bad. Joy and pleasure donot come from
immortality, they come from honest hearts. Once can influence the
conduct of others around him. The pebble dropped into the pool, can make
ripples to the furthest shore.

## 21\. Flourish and Prosper

Efforts to improve oneself, to become happier in life, can become
subject of attacks. The real handling of such situation, and such
people; the real way to defeat them, is to flourish and prosper.
Happiness lies in engaging worthwhile activities. But there is only one
person who for certain can tell what will make one happy - oneself.

Sometimes, with all care, some mistakes do happen. One should just learn
from these and carry on. Who said roads donot have bumps? It can still
be traveled. So, people fall down: It doesn't mean that they can't get
up again and keep going.

