% Amazing Tips & Tricks
% Ravikiran K.S.
% January 1, 2006


  - **10 second trick to improve photo composition**

Set your camera's self timer to 10 seconds, then lineup your shot. The
goal is to get you thinking about composition, but only so much that you
have a deadline and still have to actually take a photograph. The
self-imposed ten second countdown forces you to set up your photo
quickly, but you'll probably still have a second or two near the end you
can use to think again, see if there are any changes you could make, and
make them before the timer goes off. Same can be applied for any work.
Identify a reasonable time for any task and put a timer. Challenge
yourself to complete a task within anticipated timeframe.

  - **Use BIG picture to connect to purpose**

Anything you need or want to do can be thought of in more than one way.
For instance, “exercising” can be described in Big Picture terms, like
“getting healthier”. Thinking Big Picture about the work you do can be
very energizing in the face of stress and challenge, because you are
linking one particular, often small action to a greater meaning or
purpose.

  - **Avoid stress by relying on routines/habits**

Having to make decisions is a powerful and pervasive cause of stress in
everyone's lives. Every time you make a decision - whether to invest
money or when to schedule a meeting or about choosing a breakfast or
choice of going for walk — you create a state of mental tension that is,
in fact, stressful. This is the reason, why people feel exhausted when
they are presented with too many options. The solution is to reduce the
number of decisions you need to make by using routines. If there's
something you need to do every day, do it at the same time every day.

  - **To leave best impression, seek simplest identity**

People remember us through only one phrase, one thing, one adage. You
stand out by working at your “highest point of contribution” - an
intersection of your talent, passion and market. A unique you, how
simply can you define him? everyone is unique, so are you. Hence,
beware, don't use superlative adjectives. Adjective elevates
expectations. Don't say it, Prove it. State your achievements, describe
your works, don't take credit for things you are supposed to do.
Authority comes by who are your audience. Words like creative,
effective, proven, team player have lost their impact since they are
used to describe everyone. Don't describe yourself, point to customer
appreciations, awards, praises. Don't use superlatives that can't be
quantified like incredibly, profoundly, extremely.

  - **Appreciation is the one thing that should never be automated**

If you're truly grateful (and you should be\!) why not take the time to
personally express your gratitude in a heartfelt, genuine way? A letter,
greeting card, a post in own hand writing is good manners, memorable,
and leaves a huge impact. A personal visit, hand made food, a personal
note are more gratuitous and elegant.

  - **Nothing worth achieving comes without a price**

Fit people are fit because they work out a lot. Successful people are
successful because they work incredibly hard. People whose family
relationships are close-knit have put time and effort into building
those relationships. If you don’t have what you want, pay the price to
get it. If you’re not willing to pay the price, recognize that fact and
take that particular goal off your list. Keeping goals for which you
aren't willing pay efforts, will create mental block and frustration.
Everytime you confront a “Yeah, but…” thinking, either decide to take
the difficult pathway of other successful people OR forget the goal and
move on.

  - **Extremely successful people work smarter and they work harder**

Harder you work, luckier you become. Even Tim Ferriss, the lord of the
4-hour workweek manor, stays incredibly busy with all his projects. (Of
course to Tim it doesn't feel like work). With given time of same 24
hours per day for everyone, where you spend yours will dictate what you
achieve. In a world filled with incredibly smart and driven people,
smartness is not an option, but a necessity. You may not be smarter than
everyone else. You may not be as talented. You may not have the same
great connections, the same great environment, or the same great
education. But you can always rely on your courage and effort and
perseverance. You can always substitute effort for skill and experience,
secure in the knowledge that, over time, incredible effort will always
breed skill and experience.

