% My email to Udaya TV
% Ravikiran K.S.
% January 1, 2006

I am a regular viewer of Udaya TV channel. I would like to raise my
concerns and complain against a show run between 8:00 AM to 9:30 AM
called “Om”.

Program is misleading and language used in the program can have severe
consequences. As an example, I would like to emphasize on one particular
instance happened at around 8:40 AM on 20/Sept/2012. The lady postured
as astrologist was questioned on pregnancy of his daughter by a father
of a married woman. For the question, the astrologist responded with an
opinion that her husband has a fault due to which couple are deprived of
child. Such an accuse can cause problem to family life of the caller and
can cause irreparable damage to married life of the couple under
consideration.

Many similar incidents have happened in past, where astrologer has
provided misleading information to innocent public. Such an act of
vandalism by astrologer deserves to be criticized and should be stopped
at all costs to maintain cultural peace and welfare in society. I expect
that you would consider my concerns with importance and act on it.

If no actions are taken in this regard within a week, I would be forced
to approach honorable court and broadcasting authorities of India to
take corrective actions against channel. Expecting an early response
from the channel in this regard.

Ravi

# Udaya TV's response to the email

Dear Sir,

In reply to your mail we have clarified the same with the Astrologer and
based on the clarifications received we are stating as follows.

Whenever a viewer calls us during the programme with his/her query the
caller expects the Astrologer to provide him/her with a solution to
their problem. With regard to issue raised by you it is clarified that
during the conversation the Astrologer had expressed that she will be
more comfortable speaking to the daughter or your son-in-law and not to
girl’s father , but when the caller insisted the Astrologer had
specifically called upon to pass on the information given by her to his
daughter and son-in-law.

It is further elaborated that the programme deals with Astrology which
depends on planetary movements. So when the Astrologer said that when
the caller’s son-in-law is having some dosha she meant the dosha was
with regard to certain planetary positioning of the caller’s son-in-law
and not on the physical front. Moreover the said programme is a
astrological programme handled by an astrologer and not by a doctor to
speak about the physical factors which are preventing his son-in-law
from having a child.

It is further enumerated that we have always tried our level best to be
very accurate when providing information to our viewers and we will
continue to do so in the future too. Further we have been receiving
several of letters on a daily basis wherein our viewers have written as
to how they are benefitted after getting answers to their queries by the
Astrologer. We are really very thankful to you for being a regular
viewer of our channel and for the feedbacks which will help us to have
better insights.

# Update

In response to my email, Udaya TV has stopped broadcast of the said
programme.

